New Windows install include (#7661)
flutter/website: src/get-started/install/_get-sdk-win_v2.md

---
title: Windows install
description: How to install on Windows v2.
short-title: Windows
next:
  title: Set up an editor

>   path: /get-started/windowstest

Reviewer: Should we use a URL like "windows-quick" instead?

```suggestion
  path: /get-started/windows-quick
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: **issue:** This text is displayed in the [staged version](https://flutter-website-jr-stagi-988d4.web.app/get-started/install/windows_quick).

Reviewer 2: Still an issue.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/706219/199070732-9ac6009b-6ad7-4a67-86b4-16980f57490c.png)

## Get the Flutter SDK

> 

Reviewer 2: **suggestion:** If there are two ways to do this, consider making this a tabbed interface.

 1. Download the following installation bundle to get the latest
    {{site.sdk.channel}} release of the Flutter SDK:

    [(loading...)](#){:.download-latest-link-{{os}}.btn.btn-primary}

    For other release channels, and older builds,
    see the [SDK releases][] page.
 1. Extract the zip file and place the contained `flutter`
    in the desired installation location for the Flutter SDK
    (for example, `C:\src\flutter`).

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Do not install Flutter to a path that contains special
  characters or spaces.
{{site.alert.end}}

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Do not install Flutter in a directory like 

>   `C:\Program Files\` that requires elevated privileges.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  `C:\Program Files\` that require elevated privileges.
```

> {{site.alert.warning}}
>   Do not install Flutter to a path that contains special
>   characters or spaces.
> {{site.alert.end}}
> 
> {{site.alert.warning}}
>   Do not install Flutter in a directory like 
>   `C:\Program Files\` that requires elevated privileges.
> {{site.alert.end}}

Reviewer 2: **issue:** This doesn't need to be two blocks.
```suggestion
{{site.alert.warning}}
  You cannot install Flutter to a path that contains special
  characters or spaces or requires elevated privileges.
  An example of both would be `C:\Program Files\`.
{{site.alert.end}}
```

If you don't want to install a fixed version of the installation 
bundle, you can skip steps 1 and 2. Instead, get the source code 
from the [Flutter repo][] on 
GitHub, and change branches or tags as needed. For example:

```batchfile
C:\src>git clone https://github.com/flutter/flutter.git -b stable
```

> You are now ready to run Flutter commands in the Flutter Console.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You are now ready to run Flutter commands in the Flutter console.
```

Reviewer 3: What's the Flutter console? Consider using the same phrase as the macOS guide:

```suggestion
You are now ready to run Flutter commands.
```

[Flutter repo]: {{site.repo.flutter}}

### Update your path

If you wish to run Flutter commands in the regular Windows console,
take these steps to add Flutter to the `PATH` environment variable:

> * From the Start search bar, enter 'env'
>   and select **Edit environment variables for your account**.

Reviewer 2: **issues:** 

1. [Style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements#term-windows) uses `In the...` rather than `From the...`.
2. This is an ordered list, so it should be numbered.
3. This first step is two steps. Separate them.

```suggestion
1. In the Start search bar, enter `env`.
2. Select **Edit environment variables for your account**.
```

* Under **User variables** check if there is an entry called **Path**:
  * If the entry exists, append the full path to `flutter\bin` using

>     `;` as a separator from existing values.

Reviewer 2: @loic-sharma : It was Windows 10.

> * Under **User variables** check if there is an entry called **Path**:
>   * If the entry exists, append the full path to `flutter\bin` using
>     `;` as a separator from existing values.

Reviewer 2: **issue:** The UI changed. Use current UI.
```suggestion
3. In the **Edit environment variables** dialog, look for an entry with `flutter\bin`.
```

>   * If the entry doesn't exist,
>     create a new user variable named `Path` with
>     the full path to `flutter\bin` as its value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  a. If the entry doesn't exist, click **New**.
  b.  Create a new entry with the full path to `flutter\bin` as its value.
  c. Click **Save**.
```

> You have to close and reopen any existing console windows
> for these changes to take effect.

Reviewer 3: Nit: you don't necessarily need to close the terminal for these changes to take effect, consider simplifying to:

```suggestion
You will need to launch a new console window
for these changes to take effect.
```

<!-- {% include docs/dart-tool-win.md %} -->

### Run `flutter doctor`

> From a console window that has the Flutter directory in the
> path (see above), run the following command to see if there
> are any platform dependencies you need to complete the setup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open a console window.
2. Run the following command to see check for missing platform dependencies:
```

```batchfile
C:\src\flutter>flutter doctor
```

This command checks your environment and displays a report of the status
of your Flutter installation. Check the output carefully for other
software you might need to install or further tasks to perform
(shown in **bold** text).

For example:

<pre>
[-] Android toolchain - develop for Android devices
    • Android SDK at D:\Android\sdk
    <strong>✗ Android SDK is missing command line tools; download from https://goo.gl/XxQghQ</strong>
    • Try re-installing or updating your Android SDK,
      visit {{site.url}}/setup/#android-setup for detailed instructions.
</pre>

> The following sections describe how to perform these tasks and

Reviewer 5: We should consider changing the language here and below, as missing dependencies for things the user is not intending to use is A-OK. For example, not having desktop compilers for developers wanting to do Android development, or missing Android Studio plugins when the developer is going to use VS Code.

finish the setup process. Once you have installed any missing
dependencies, you can run the `flutter doctor` command again to
verify that you’ve set everything up correctly.

{{site.alert.note}}
  If `flutter doctor` returns that either the Flutter plugin

>   or  Dart plugin of Android Studio are not installed, move

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  or Dart plugin of Android Studio are not installed, move
```
